Take thy lute, wench:
my soul grows sad with troubles;
Sing, and disperse 'em, if thou canst:
leave working.
♪ Orpheus with his lute made trees,
And the mountain tops that freeze,
Bow themselves when he did sing:
To his music plants and flowers
Ever sprung; as sun and showers
There had made a lasting spring.
Every thing that heard him play,
Even the billows of the sea,
Hung their heads, and then lay by.
In sweet music is such art,
Killing care and grief of heart
Fall asleep, or hearing, die. ♪
How now!
An't please your grace,
the two great cardinals wait in the presence.
Would they speak with me?
They will'd me say so, madam.
Pray their graces to come near.
What can be their business with me,
a poor weak woman, fall'n from favour?
I do not like their coming.
Now I think on't,
They should be good men;
their affairs as righteous:
But all hoods make not monks.
Peace to your highness!
Your graces find me here part of a housewife,
I would be all, against the worst may happen.
What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?
May it please you noble madam,
to withdraw into your private chamber,
we shall give you the full cause of our coming.
Speak it here:
There's nothing I have done yet,
o' my conscience, deserves a corner:
would all other women could speak this
with as free a soul as I do!
My lords, I care not,
so much I am happy above a number,
if my actions were tried by every tongue,
every eye saw 'em,
Envy and base opinion set against 'em,
I know my life so even.
If your business seek me out,
and that way I am wife in,
Out with it boldly: truth loves open dealing.
Tanta est erga te mentis integritas,
regina serenissima,--
O, good my lord, no Latin;
I am not such a truant since my coming,
As not to know the language I have lived in:
A strange tongue makes my cause more strange,
suspicious;
Pray, speak in English:
here are some will thank you, if you speak truth,
for their poor mistress' sake;
lord cardinal,
The willing'st sin I ever yet committed
May be absolved in English.
Noble lady,
I am sorry my integrity should breed,
And service to his majesty and you,
So deep suspicion, where all faith was meant.
We come not by the way of accusation,
To taint that honour every good tongue blesses,
Nor to betray you any way to sorrow,
You have too much, good lady;
but to know how you stand minded
in the weighty difference
Between the king and you; and to deliver,
Like free and honest men,
our just opinions and comforts to your cause.
Most honour'd madam,
My Lord of York, out of his noble nature,
Zeal and obedience he still bore your grace,
Forgetting, like a good man your late censure
Both of his truth and him, which was too far,
Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,
His service and his counsel.
My lords, I thank you both for your good wills;
Ye speak like honest men; pray God, ye prove so!
But how to make ye suddenly an answer,
In such a point of weight, so near mine honour,
More near my life, I fear,
with my weak wit,
And to such men of gravity and learning,
In truth, I know not.
I was set at work among my maids:
full little, God knows,
looking either for such men or such business.
For her sake that I have been,
for I feel the last fit of my greatness,
good your graces,
Let me have time and counsel for my cause:
Alas, I am a woman, friendless, hopeless!
Madam, you wrong the king's love with these fears:
Your hopes and friends are infinite.
In England
But little for my profit:
can you think, lords,
That any Englishman dare give me counsel?
Or be a known friend, 'gainst his highness' pleasure,
Though he be grown so desperate to be honest,
And live a subject?
Nay, forsooth, my friends,
They that must weigh out my afflictions,
They that my trust must grow to, live not here:
They are, as all my other comforts,
far hence In mine own country, lords.
I would your grace
Would leave your griefs, and take my counsel.
How, sir?
Put your main cause into the king's protection;
He's loving and most gracious: 'twill be much
Both for your honour better and your cause;
For if the trial of the law o'ertake ye,
You'll part away disgraced.
He tells you rightly.
Ye tell me what ye wish for both,
my ruin:
Is this your Christian counsel? out upon ye!
Heaven is above all yet;
there sits a judge that no king can corrupt.
Your rage mistakes us.
The more shame for ye:
holy men I thought ye,
Upon my soul, two reverend cardinal virtues;
But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye:
Mend 'em, for shame, my lords.
Is this your comfort?
The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady,
A woman lost among ye, laugh'd at, scorn'd?
I will not wish ye half my miseries;
I have more charity:
but say, I warn'd ye;
Take heed, for heaven's sake, take heed,
lest at once the burthen of my sorrows
fall upon ye.
Madam, this is a mere distraction;
You turn the good we offer into envy.
Ye turn me into nothing:
out upon ye and all such false professors!
would you have me
If you have any justice, any pity;
If ye be any thing but churchmen's habits
Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me?
Alas, has banish'd me his bed already,
His love, too long ago!
I am old, my lords,
And all the fellowship I hold now with him
Is only my obedience.
What can happen to me above this wretchedness?
all your studies make me a curse like this.
Your fears are worse.
Have I lived thus long--let me speak myself,
Since virtue finds no friends--a wife, a true one?
A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,
Never yet branded with suspicion?
Have I with all my full affections
Still met the king?
loved him next heaven? obey'd him?
Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him?
Almost forgot my prayers to content him?
And am I thus rewarded?
'tis not well, lords.
Bring me a constant woman to her husband,
One that ne'er dream'd a joy beyond his pleasure;
And to that woman, when she has done most,
Yet will I add an honour, a great patience.
Madam, you wander from the good we aim at.
My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty,
To give up willingly that noble title
Your master wed me to:
nothing but death shall e'er divorce my dignities.
Pray, hear me.
Would I had never trod this English earth,
Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
Ye have angels' faces, but heaven knows your hearts.
What will become of me now, wretched lady!
I am the most unhappy woman living.
Alas, poor wenches, where are now your fortunes!
Shipwreck'd upon a kingdom,
where no pity, no friend, no hope;
no kindred weep for me;
Almost no grave allow'd me:
like the lily, that once was mistress of the field
and flourish'd,
I'll hang my head and perish.
If your grace could but be brought to know
our ends are honest,
You'ld feel more comfort:
why should we, good lady,
Upon what cause, wrong you?
alas, our places,
The way of our profession is against it:
We are to cure such sorrows, not to sow 'em.
For goodness' sake, consider what you do;
How you may hurt yourself,
ay, utterly grow from the king's acquaintance,
by this carriage.
The hearts of princes kiss obedience,
So much they love it;
but to stubborn spirits they swell, and grow
as terrible as storms.
I know you have a gentle, noble temper,
A soul as even as a calm:
pray, think us those we profess,
peace-makers, friends, and servants.
Madam, you'll find it so.
You wrong your virtues
With these weak women's fears:
a noble spirit, as yours was put into you,
ever casts such doubts, as false coin, from it.
The king loves you;
Beware you lose it not: for us,
if you please to trust us in your business,
we are ready to use our utmost studies
in your service.
Do what ye will, my lords:
and, pray, forgive me,
If I have used myself unmannerly;
You know I am a woman,
lacking wit to make a seemly answer to such persons.
Pray, do my service to his majesty:
He has my heart yet;
and shall have my prayers while I shall have my life.
Come, reverend fathers,
Bestow your counsels on me:
she now begs, that little thought,
when she set footing here,
She should have bought her dignities so dear.
If you will now unite in your complaints,
And force them with a constancy,
the cardinal cannot stand under them:
if you omit the offer of this time,
I cannot promise
But that you shall sustain moe new disgraces,
With these you bear already.
I am joyful to meet the least occasion
that may give me
Remembrance of my father-in-law, the duke,
To be revenged on him.
Which of the peers have uncontemn'd gone by him,
or at least strangely neglected?
when did he regard the stamp of nobleness
in any person out of himself?
My lords, you speak your pleasures:
What he deserves of you and me I know;
What we can do to him,
though now the time gives way to us, I much fear.
If you cannot bar his access to the king,
never attempt any thing on him;
for he hath a witchcraft
Over the king in's tongue.
O, fear him not;
His spell in that is out:
the king hath found matter against him
that for ever mars the honey of his language.
No, he's settled,
Not to come off, in his displeasure.
Sir, I should be glad to hear such news as this
Once every hour.
Believe it, this is true:
In the divorce his contrary proceedings
Are all unfolded
wherein he appears as I would wish mine enemy.
How came his practises to light?
Most strangely.
O, how, how?
The cardinal's letters to the pope miscarried,
And came to the eye o' the king: wherein was read,
How that the cardinal did entreat his holiness
To stay the judgment o' the divorce;
for if it did take place, 'I do,' quoth he,
'perceive my king is tangled in affection
to a creature of the queen's, Lady Anne Bullen.'
Has the king this?
Believe it.
Will this work?
The king in this perceives him,
how he coasts and hedges his own way.
But in this point all his tricks founder,
and he brings his physic
After his patient's death:
the king already hath married the fair lady.
Would he had!
May you be happy in your wish, my lord
For, I profess, you have it.
Now, all my joy trace the conjunction!
My amen to't!
All men's!
There's order given for her coronation:
Marry, this is yet but young,
and may be left to some ears unrecounted.
But, will the king
Digest this letter of the cardinal's?
The Lord forbid!
Marry, amen!
No, no; there be moe wasps
that buzz about his nose
Will make this sting the sooner.
Cardinal Campeius is stol'n away to Rome;
hath ta'en no leave;
Has left the cause o' the king unhandled;
and is posted, as the agent of our cardinal,
To second all his plot.
I do assure you the king cried Ha! at this.
Now, God incense him,
And let him cry Ha! louder!
But, my lord, when returns Cranmer?
He is return'd in his opinions;
which have satisfied the king for his divorce,
Together with all famous colleges
Almost in Christendom:
shortly, I believe,
His second marriage shall be publish'd,
and her coronation.
Katharine no more shall be call'd queen,
but princess dowager and widow to Prince Arthur.
This same Cranmer's
A worthy fellow, and hath ta'en much pain
In the king's business.
The packet, Cromwell. Gave't you the king?
To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
Look'd he o' the inside of the paper?
Presently he did unseal them:
and the first he view'd,
He did it with a serious mind;
a heed was in his countenance.
You he bade attend him here this morning.
Is he ready to come abroad?
I think, by this he is.
Leave me awhile.
It shall be to the Duchess of Alencon,
The French king's sister: he shall marry her.
Anne Bullen! No; I'll no Anne Bullens for him:
There's more in't than fair visage.
Bullen! No, we'll no Bullens.
Speedily I wish to hear from Rome.
The Marchioness of Pembroke!
He's discontented.
May be, he hears the king
does whet his anger to him.
Sharp enough, Lord, for thy justice!
The late queen's gentlewoman,
a knight's daughter,
To be her mistress' mistress! the queen's queen!
This candle burns not clear:
'tis I must snuff it;
Then out it goes.
What though I know her virtuous and well deserving?
yet I know her for a spleeny Lutheran;
and not wholesome to our cause,
that she should lie i' the bosom of our
hard-ruled king.
Again, there is sprung up an heretic,
an arch one, Cranmer;
one hath crawl'd into the favour of the king,
And is his oracle.
He is vex'd at something.
I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
The master-cord on's heart!
The king, the king!
What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
To his own portion!
and what expense by the hour
seems to flow from him!
How, i' the name of thrift,
Does he rake this together!
Now, my lords, saw you the cardinal?
My lord, we have stood here observing him:
some strange commotion is in his brain:
he bites his lip, and starts;
Stops on a sudden, looks upon the ground,
Then lays his finger on his temple,
straight springs out into fast gait;
then stops again,
Strikes his breast hard,
and anon he casts his eye against the moon:
in most strange postures we have seen him set himself.
It may well be;
There is a mutiny in's mind.
This morning papers of state he sent me to peruse,
As I required:
and wot you what I found there,
on my conscience, put unwittingly?
Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing;
The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household;
which I find at such proud rate,
that it out-speaks possession of a subject.
It's heaven's will:
Some spirit put this paper in the packet,
To bless your eye withal.
If we did think his contemplation
were above the earth,
And fix'd on spiritual object,
he should still dwell in his musings:
but I am afraid his thinkings are below the moon,
not worth his serious considering.
Heaven forgive me!
Ever God bless your highness!
Good my lord,
You are full of heavenly stuff,
and bear the inventory of your best graces
in your mind;
the which you were now running o'er:
you have scarce time
To steal from spiritual leisure
a brief span to keep your earthly audit:
sure, in that I deem you an ill husband,
and am glad to have you therein my companion.
Sir,For holy offices I have a time;
a time to think upon the part of business
which I bear i' the state;
and nature does require her times of preservation,
which perforce I, her frail son,
amongst my brethren mortal,
Must give my tendence to.
You have said well.
And ever may your highness yoke together,
As I will lend you cause,
my doing well with my well saying!
'Tis well said again;
And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well:
And yet words are no deeds.
My father loved you:
His said he did;
and with his deed did crown his word upon you.
Since I had my office,
I have kept you next my heart;
have not alone employ'd you
where high profits might come home,
But pared my present havings,
to bestow my bounties upon you.
Have I not made you, the prime man of the state?
I pray you, tell me,
If what I now pronounce you have found true:
And, if you may confess it, say withal,
If you are bound to us or no.
What say you?
My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
Shower'd on me daily, have been more
than could my studied purposes requite;
which went beyond all man's endeavours:
my endeavours have ever come too short
of my desires,
Yet filed with my abilities:
mine own ends have been mine
so that evermore they pointed
To the good of your most sacred person
and the profit of the state.
For your great graces heap'd upon me,
poor undeserver, I can nothing
render but allegiant thanks,
My prayers to heaven for you, my loyalty,
Which ever has and ever shall be growing,
Till death, that winter, kill it.
Fairly answer'd;
A loyal and obedient subject
is therein illustrated:
the honour of it does pay the act of it;
as, i' the contrary,
The foulness is the punishment.
I presume that,
as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
My heart dropp'd love,
my power rain'd honour,
more on you than any;
so your hand and heart,
Your brain, and every function of your power,
Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
As 'twere in love's particular,
be more to me, your friend, than any.
I do profess
That for your highness' good I ever labour'd
More than mine own;
that am, have, and will be
Though all the world should crack
their duty to you,
And throw it from their soul;
though perils did abound,
as thick as thought could make 'em,
and appear in forms more horrid,
yet my duty, as doth a rock against the chiding flood,
Should the approach of this wild river break,
And stand unshaken yours.
'Tis nobly spoken:
Take notice, lords, he has a loyal breast,
For you have seen him open't.
Read o'er this; and after, this:
and then to breakfast
with what appetite you have.
What should this mean?
What sudden anger's this? how have I reap'd it?
He parted frowning from me,
as if ruin leap'd from his eyes:
so looks the chafed lion upon the daring huntsman
that has gall'd him;
Then makes him nothing.
I must read this paper;
I fear, the story of his anger.
'Tis so; This paper has undone me:
'tis the account of all that world of wealth
I have drawn together for mine own ends;
indeed, to gain the popedom,
And fee my friends in Rome.
O negligence!
Fit for a fool to fall by:
what cross devil made me put this main secret
in the packet I sent the king?
Is there no way to cure this?
No new device to beat this from his brains?
I know 'twill stir him strongly;
yet I know a way, if it take right, in spite of fortune
Will bring me off again.
What's this? 'To the Pope!'
The letter, as I live,
with all the business I writ to's holiness.
Nay then, farewell!
I have touch'd the highest point of all my greatness;
And, from that full meridian of my glory,
I haste now to my setting:
I shall fall like a bright exhalation
in the evening,
And no man see me more.
Hear the king's pleasure, cardinal:
who commands you to render up the great seal
presently into our hands;
and to confine yourself to Asher House,
my Lord of Winchester's,
Till you hear further from his highness.
Stay:
Where's your commission, lords?
words cannot carry authority so weighty.
Who dare cross 'em,
Bearing the king's will from his mouth expressly?
Till I find more than will or words to do it,
I mean your malice, know, officious lords,
I dare and must deny it.
Now I feel of what coarse metal ye are moulded,
envy:
How eagerly ye follow my disgraces,
As if it fed ye!
and how sleek and wanton
Ye appear in every thing may bring my ruin!
Follow your envious courses, men of malice;
You have Christian warrant for 'em,
and, no doubt, in time
will find their fit rewards.
That seal, you ask with such a violence,
the king, mine and your master,
with his own hand gave me;
Bade me enjoy it, with the place and honours,
During my life; and, to confirm his goodness,
Tied it by letters-patents: now, who'll take it?
The king, that gave it.
It must be himself, then.
Thou art a proud traitor, priest.
Proud lord, thou liest:
Within these forty hours
Surrey durst better
Have burnt that tongue than said so.
Thy ambition, thou scarlet sin,
robb'd this bewailing land of noble Buckingham,
my father-in-law:
The heads of all thy brother cardinals,
With thee and all thy best parts bound together,
Weigh'd not a hair of his.
Plague of your policy!
You sent me deputy for Ireland;
Far from his succor, from the king,
from all that might have mercy
on the fault thou gavest him;
Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity,
Absolved him with an axe.
This, and all else this talking lord
can lay upon my credit,
I answer is most false.
The duke by law found his deserts:
how innocent I was
From any private malice in his end,
His noble jury and foul cause can witness.
If I loved many words, lord,
I should tell you
You have as little honesty as honour,
Your long coat, priest, protects you;
thou shouldst feel my sword
i' the life-blood of thee else.
My lords,
Can ye endure to hear this arrogance?
And from this fellow?
if we live thus tamely,
To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet,
Farewell nobility; let his grace go forward,
And dare us with his cap like larks.
All goodness is poison to thy stomach.
Yes, that goodness of gleaning
all the land's wealth into one
Into your own hands,
cardinal, by extortion;
The goodness of your intercepted packets
You writ to the pope against the king:
your goodness, since you provoke me,
shall be most notorious.
My Lord of Norfolk, as you are truly noble,
As you respect the common good,
the state of our despised nobility,
our issues, who, if he live,
will scarce be gentlemen,
Produce the grand sum of his sins,
the articles collected from his life.
I'll startle you worse than the scaring bell,
when the brown wench lay kissing in your arms,
lord cardinal.
How much, methinks, I could despise this man,
But that I am bound in charity against it!
Those articles, my lord, are in the king's hand:
But, thus much, they are foul ones.
So much fairer and spotless
shall mine innocence arise,
When the king knows my truth.
This cannot save you:
I thank my memory,
I yet remember some of these articles;
and out they shall.
Now, if you can blush and cry 'guilty,' cardinal,
You'll show a little honesty.
Speak on, sir;
I dare your worst objections:
if I blush,
It is to see a nobleman want manners.
I had rather want those than my head.
Have at you!
First, that, without the king's assent or knowledge,
You wrought to be a legate;
by which power you maim'd the jurisdiction
of all bishops.
Then, that in all you writ to Rome,
or else to foreign princes, 'Ego et Rex meus'
Was still inscribed; in which you brought the king
To be your servant.
Then that, without the knowledge
Either of king or council,
when you went ambassador to the emperor,
you made bold to carry into Flanders
the great seal.
Item, you sent a large commission
To Gregory de Cassado, to conclude,
Without the king's will or the state's allowance,
A league between his highness and Ferrara.
That, out of mere ambition,
you have caused your holy hat
to be stamp'd on the king's coin.
Then that you have sent innumerable substance
By what means got, I leave to your own conscience
To furnish Rome, and to prepare the ways
You have for dignities;
to the mere undoing of all the kingdom.
Many more there are;
Which, since they are of you, and odious,
I will not taint my mouth with.
O my lord, Press not a falling man too far! '
tis virtue:
His faults lie open to the laws;
let them, not you, correct him.
My heart weeps to see him so little of his great self.
I forgive him.
Lord cardinal, the king's further pleasure is,
Because all those things you have done of late,
By your power legatine, within this kingdom,
Fall into the compass of a praemunire,
That therefore such a writ be sued against you;
To forfeit all your goods, lands, tenements,
Chattels, and whatsoever,
and to be out of the king's protection.
This is my charge.
And so we'll leave you to your meditations
How to live better.
For your stubborn answer
About the giving back the great seal to us,
The king shall know it,
and, no doubt, shall thank you.
So fare you well, my little good lord cardinal.
So farewell to the little good you bear me.
Farewell! a long farewell, to all my greatness!
This is the state of man:
to-day he puts forth the tender leaves of hopes;
to-morrow blossoms,
And bears his blushing honours thick upon him;
The third day comes a frost,
a killing frost,
And, when he thinks, good easy man,
full surely his greatness is a-ripening,
nips his root, and then he falls, as I do.
I have ventured, like little wanton boys
that swim on bladders,
This many summers in a sea of glory,
But far beyond my depth:
my high-blown pride at length broke under me
and now has left me,
Weary and old with service,
to the mercy of a rude stream,
that must for ever hide me.
Vain pomp and glory of this world,
I hate ye:
I feel my heart new open'd.
O, how wretched is that poor man
that hangs on princes' favours!
There is, betwixt that smile we would aspire to,
That sweet aspect of princes,
and their ruin,
More pangs and fears than wars or women have:
And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,
Never to hope again.
Why, how now, Cromwell!
I have no power to speak, sir.
What, amazed at my misfortunes?
can thy spirit wonder a great man should decline?
Nay, an you weep, I am fall'n indeed.
How does your grace?
Why, well;
Never so truly happy, my good Cromwell.
I know myself now;
and I feel within me a peace
above all earthly dignities,
A still and quiet conscience.
The king has cured me,
I humbly thank his grace;
and from these shoulders,
These ruin'd pillars, out of pity,
taken a load would sink a navy,
too much honour:
O, 'tis a burthen, Cromwell,
'tis a burthen too heavy
for a man that hopes for heaven!
I am glad your grace has made that right use of it.
I hope I have: I am able now, methinks,
Out of a fortitude of soul I feel,
To endure more miseries and greater far
Than my weak-hearted enemies dare offer.
What news abroad?
The heaviest and the worst
Is your displeasure with the king.
God bless him!
The next is, that Sir Thomas More is chosen
Lord chancellor in your place.
That's somewhat sudden:
But he's a learned man.
May he continue long in his highness' favour,
and do justice for truth's sake and his conscience;
that his bones,
When he has run his course and sleeps in blessings,
May have a tomb of orphans' tears wept on em!
What more?
That Cranmer is return'd with welcome,
Install'd lord archbishop of Canterbury.
That's news indeed.
Last, that the Lady Anne,
Whom the king hath in secrecy long married,
This day was view'd in open as his queen,
Going to chapel;
and the voice is now
Only about her coronation.
There was the weight that pull'd me down.
O Cromwell, The king has gone beyond me:
all my glories in that one woman
I have lost for ever:
No sun shall ever usher forth mine honours,
Or gild again the noble troops that waited
Upon my smiles.
Go, get thee from me, Cromwell;
I am a poor fall'n man,
unworthy now to be thy lord and master:
seek the king;
That sun, I pray, may never set!
I have told him what and how true thou art:
he will advance thee;
Some little memory of me will stir him
I know his noble nature
not to let thy hopeful service perish too:
good Cromwell, Neglect him not;
make use now,
and provide for thine own future safety.
O my lord, must I, then, leave you?
must I needs forego so good, so noble
and so true a master?
Bear witness, all that have not hearts of iron,
With what a sorrow Cromwell leaves his lord.
The king shall have my service:
but my prayers for ever
and for ever shall be yours.
Cromwell, I did not think to shed a tear
In all my miseries;
but thou hast forced me,
Out of thy honest truth, to play the woman.
Let's dry our eyes:
and thus far hear me, Cromwell;
And, when I am forgotten, as I shall be,
And sleep in dull cold marble,
where no mention of me more must be heard of,
say, I taught thee,
Say, Wolsey, that once trod the ways of glory,
And sounded all the depths and shoals of honour,
Found thee a way, out of his wreck, to rise in;
A sure and safe one, though thy master miss'd it.
Mark but my fall, and that that ruin'd me.
Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition:
By that sin fell the angels; how can man, then,
The image of his Maker, hope to win by it?
Love thyself last:
cherish those hearts that hate thee;
Corruption wins not more than honesty.
Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace,
To silence envious tongues.
Be just, and fear not:
Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,
Thy God's, and truth's; then if thou fall'st,
O Cromwell, thou fall'st a blessed martyr!
Serve the king; And, prithee, lead me in:
There take an inventory of all I have,
To the last penny; 'tis the king's:
my robe, and my integrity to heaven,
is all I dare now call mine own.
O Cromwell, Cromwell!
Had I but served my God with half the zeal
I served my king,
he would not in mine age
Have left me naked to mine enemies.
Good sir, have patience.
So I have. Farewell
The hopes of court! my hopes in heaven do dwell.